+++
menu = "main"
title = "About Kvitka"
type = "about"
weight = 10
+++


Kvitka was founded in October 2019, on the mission of delivering software with high quality.

### Quality in Software Engineering

Although you can get a degree in *Computer Science* and a job title of
*Software Engineer*, there actually isn't a lot of Science nor
Engineering in the discipline of programming.

Sure, there is a bit of science in learning algorithms and calculating
their *Big-O complexity*, but designing fancy algorithms is typically
less than 5% of a developer's work, even at web-scale companies like
Google.

Programming is mostly *plumbing*. Fetching data from one source,
transforming it into a different format, and generating output
somewhere else. While attempting to make it as fast and lean as
possible. And then you have to handle unexpected situations that may
arise in the process (like being temporarily unable to connect to
the backend database). None of this is particularly *sciencey*.

Also, software development shares few *engineering* traits with, say,
construction work. Which is why there are dozens of methodologies and
processes to follow. But anyone's opinion is as good as anyone else's
in terms of which methodology is "best". Which manifests in the
notorious difficulty of landing software development projects *on
spec, on time, and on budget*, without sacrificing quality. And this
field is changing all the time. Next month, new ideas will be
considered "best practices" and the previous best practices will be
considered legacy.

Therefore, a more appropriate description of programming is that it is
a *craftsmanship*. And like any other craftsmanship, the abilities of
a craftsman are a result of experience, talent, passion and sentiment.

The best craftsmen turn their craft into an art. They can beautiful
woodwork using a chainsaw. Or, in the case of the best programmers,
they can write code that is correct, self-documenting, easily
maintainable, performant, and elegant.

This is what we take pride in at Kvitka.

### The Kvitka Name

"Kvitka" is a Ukrainian word and means "flower". Why that name, you ask? Who doesn't like a flower? :)

"Kvitka" is also a classic [song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8fGSmP3D38) by the popular Ukrainian rock band [Океан Ельзи](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okean_Elzy).
